hello all so today
uh we're going to talk about the
non-ideal effects
of mosfet so as you know
as uh with the semiconductor devices
uh the experimental characteristic is
not the same like the
theoretically uh behavior so
the experimental characteristic is most
facts uh
deviate to some degree uh from
the ideal relation that have been
theoretically derived
using the various assumption and also
approximation
so basically in the character
characteristic for experimental
is a slight difference from the
theoretical one
so this is because of the non-ideal
effects
of mosfets
so here is the outline for this lecture
so i'm going to talk the non-ideal
effect of mosfet
including sub threshold conduction
channel length modulation
mobility relay variation value
city saturation and ballistic transport
so after that we're going to talk about
the mosfet scaling
so what happened if the gate length or
the channel length of the mosfet
uh shrinking so there are effects
due to that includes a constant field
scaling threshold voltage first
approximations
generalized scaling and small device
geometries
there are short channel effects
and narrow channel effects
so this is the right figures
shows the iv id vgs
characteristic so the blue lines
shows the experimental of id
and the black line is the id for the
ideal case
for the ideal case is when we apply gate
voltage
until it reaches threshold voltage then
the
current of a drain current start flowing
so this is for the ideal case however
in actual case or during experimental
before actually it reached the
threshold voltage there is a very small
current
measured for the mosfet and slowly
uh increase until it reaches a threshold
point
and it increase further so
this is for the experimental case so
that's why we call it as a sub threshold
subthreshold conduction for this case
where
[Music]
drain current can be measured even
before the threshold voltage
so why is that happen uh because
of the current near threshold voltage so
the last figure here shows the energy
band diagram
of a mos structure with the p-type
substrate bias
okay so for normal behavior so this is
the gate
okay and this is the semiconductor
so for normal behavior so we apply the
surface potential here uh less
than the two phi fp
okay in order to make the electrons
flowing from source to drain and current
is flowing so however
for the condition of
surface potential in between 5fp
and 25fp there is also
a current flowing at
drain terminal and this
is we call it as a weak inversion
so that's why there is a slightly
small current of drained drink current
measured before it reached the threshold
voltage
so that behavior the previous slide can
be explained further
uh in this diagram
okay so this is uh the figure e shows
the
mosfet structure with uh
applying bias so so this is the case
so during accumulation the figure b
so this is the source gate
and the drain so this is what happens so
during accumulation
so the barrier is actually very uh
very large from from zero the applying
voltage
to uh this two by fb
so during this uh so electron is a
very hard to move or to
[Music]
to to to pass the barrier so this is the
electron this is
very hard to pass the barrier
from source to the drain therefore there
is no
current flowing uh from drain to the
source
however during weak inversion
okay the the barrier is actually uh
lowered
okay so uh from pi fp
to two by fp so now since the barrier is
uh lowered so the electron is uh
can pass through uh from source
this is source gate and drain so
electron can pass through this barrier
and therefore during this weak inversion
drain current can be measured due to the
electron can pass
through uh from source to the dream
therefore elect
uh drain current can be measured
so this is what happened during
experimental where before it reached the
threshold voltage
there is a slightly current measured so
this is actually due to the weak
inversion so in here we can
summarize that the barrier between n
plus source
and the channel is small therefore
electron can
move to the channel or in other word
pass the barrier okay so
in inversion so this is source
gate and drain so during inversion
even the barrier become very very small
here okay so it actually electron can
pass through easily okay from source
to the channel and that's why during
inversion
the id can be measured or the ids start
increase so this is what happened during
subtraction
conduction
so this is the summarization of the
threshold current so sub threshold
current uh
id sub is proportional to this portion
and this portion can be simplified
when vds is greater than the fuel
kt so the whole equation
for the id sub can be simplified uh
into this where id sub is proportional
to the exponent
vgs kt so this
uh subtraction id sub is actually
it's a electrical characteristic of a
mosfet
so we call it as a sub threshold swing
so this one can be measured due to the
slope
of the lock idvg so when we
log scale the uh
the y-axis so we can measure the
slope and we can get the uh
sub-threshold swing
so this subtraction swing is actually a
switching behavior
it's a switching behavior
okay so uh 16 millivolt per decade is
the ideal case which is good
where the device or the mosfet needs 60
millivolt to turn on
uh from off to on or on to off so that
is very ideal case
so this subtraction swing can be
increased if the leakage current
is very high in the mosfet so
basically this subtraction swing depends
on
different structure due to how much it
produced the leakage current
so the higher the leakage current the
sub-tissue swing
will increase more than 60 millivolt per
decade
so the other effect is channel length
modulation
so in ideal case we assume
in the derivation of the iv
characteristic
the channel link is constant however it
it actually it does not constant so the
left figure
okay so the left figure uh shows the uh
the mosfet structure
so we have the application of vgs and
vds
so this is the the inversion charge
the blue area so in this case
the transistor channel line is produced
by
l so this l so from source to drain
so basically uh this is the the ideal
case of china line
so however this channel line is actually
depends so in how much we apply uh
voltage to the vds so when we apply
uh higher vds so there
there will be uh so this vds so
let's see when we apply vds greater than
the vds
saturation so actually
uh this mosfet is in
saturation region so the depletion
region will be extended under the
drain okay under the drain so
this one will be extended therefore
there will be a portion
of the inversion charge to be backward
so this region actually is due
to the high drain
to source voltage that we apply and we
introduce or represent it as a delta l
so this delta if l is depends on how
much
high we apply to the vds
so at saturation region a channel will
pinch off at the drain terminal edge and
the pinch off point move towards uh
source as vds is increased
so the right trigger shows what happened
is actually when we apply vds greater
than the vds saturation
so the electron can still uh
flowing so this is the other side is our
sauce
so let's get confused so the the other
side of here is sauce
and gate and this is the dream so
electron can still
flowing through however
it looks like there is a separation at
this
edge to the drain however electron can
still
pass through this edge where this
electric
field can actually accelerate the
electron
to pass through
uh from uh source to drain
and therefore current can still
be measured at the drain terminal
so this current is actually uh
deviate okay due to the
this delta l so this is what we call as
the channel length
modulation
so the expression for the delta
l just now represent by this
equation where the delta l depends on
the
uh phi fp and also
the vds saturation that we apply and
also how much different of
the vds so drain current
is proportional to this channel length
so actually uh so the
drain current is deviate from the
initial due to the
delta l just now so when we have
a delta l portion actually drain current
will increase okay so
delta l is a function of vds
so that the id saturation is also depend
on the vds and also the delta l
so as mosfet becomes smaller means the
length become smaller so the effect of
channel line modulation become
more severe so this is the delta l
become more severe
okay this is the drain current with
channel length modulation
the left figure shows the idvd
characteristic
okay for the deviate
i prime d this is the normal id
characteristic
so for this case we actually have the so
this is
like this so the idbd so anything
that uh greater than this
line is saturation
during saturation region
so when we apply greater vds so this is
happens
so in this case
uh actually
so for the case of um
normal behavior so this is uh this
id is uh saturate is supposed to be
uh straight line it's a very
lean normal saturation
however there is a slight slope
okay in experimental the blue line there
is a slight slope
so as you can see there is a difference
between the ideal case
and the experimental so there is
for experimental there is a slight slope
so this slope is actually due to
the due to the
channel line modulation so there is a
slope here
so when there is a slope here means
there is a resistivity so
we need to consider the resistivity uh
during
channel lung modulation so this is their
id
in saturation so this is id saturation
so this id saturation is given by this
equation
but when we have a delta l
channel line modulation so uh we have
this portion
so this portion is actually represent
the china line modulation parameter
the output resistance
so the slope for this one is uh
voltage over current so we have uh
are not here so they are this r node is
given by
uh if you quantify the equation so given
by this equation
depends on the lambda so when lambda
uh lambda is actually normally small
so the resistivity or the output
resistance can
be simplified by this equation
that's why we can summarize that
why is the id vds has a
slightly slow high slope
compared to the ideal idv idvd
is because of the china line modulation
so for the calculation of the channel
of the current due to the channel line
modulation you can try
example 11.1 from the textbook
so for the calculation of the channel
of the current due to the channel line
modulation you can try
example 11.1 from the textbook
so next is we move on the mobility
variation so the assumption that has
been made
in ideal transistor the mobility is
constant mobility means the electron
uh how uh the electron flow from source
to the drain
so it's actually the mobility of
electron however the mob
the mobility of electron vary due to the
influence from the gate voltage also
from the decrease of
effective mobility when the carrier
approach
validity saturation remain so what is
this we going to talk in the next
slide
so what is mobility variation so it
depends one is depend on the
how much okay how much uh gate
to source voltage that we apply so the
so when we apply uh gate to source
voltage we will apply vg here so there
will be
an electric field uh
in a vertical position here
okay so this positive gate voltage uh
is applied to form inversion layer so
the electric field
also in a vertical direction or
transverse
electric field so due to this
electric field actually um
so electron is flowing in this direction
okay so ideally electron is flowing
uh very smooth uh from source to the
drain
okay however when there is a
high electric field uh in the vertical
direction
so it will actually um
give barrier to the electron to flow
very smooth
uh from source to the drain so this
electron in inversion layer
actually can move from source to drink
the drain
but need to overcome or to pass through
this
electric field so this is the carrier
movement
to the drain is affected by the
transverse electric field which we we
explained in the next slide
so this is what happened so for this
case uh
let's say we have so just now we have
a gate here so we have
gate to source voltage and we apply
high gate voltage when we apply gate
voltage to the gate so there will be an
electric field
okay so for this case
[Music]
instead of electron flowing from source
to the drain
very smooth
however electron need need to pass
through the transverse electric field
so for this case uh it has
um barrier to overcome
two so there is electric field
throughout
this uh gate region so electron actually
instead of
uh going very smooth from source to
drain
uh so this um actually
uh the electron pass through in zigzag
mode so in it pass through one electric
field
and then it go down pass through one
electric field
and then it go down so every um
electron uh every mobility of electron
touch
the this region and this region
so it actually store charge
in every uh region it it passed through
means the barrier it passed through so
it's
store charged and the current also
will be depends on the charge that has
been stored
so for this case uh this effect is
called as a surface
scattering okay so the surface
scattering is actually degrade the
mobility so why
degrade the mobility is uh how electron
flows from source to the drain
so how electron mobile from source to
the dream
and it has to overcome the electric
field instead of going straight
line now it has a zigzag behavior
so this scattering
the if effective transverse electric
field
is given by this equation and this
uh effective mobility is given by
this equation
so this is what surface scattering so
surface scattering will degrade the
mobility of electron
thus it will affect the
the current the drain current
okay the inversion layer mobility so
this figure shows the electron mobility
versus the electric field in the
inversion layer
basically this electric field
or effective electric field is
proportional
to the how much uh gate voltage
that we apply okay so this uh as
explained in the previous night uh
effective
uh electric field is due to the lateral
electric field or transverse electric
field
so if this uh if
vgs is
higher so this will affect the
electron mobility or the mu
effective will decrease
so this mobility decreases due to
the electric field so the higher
the gate voltage the more the electric
field
lateral vertical electric field produced
therefore the the more difficult for the
electron to pass through
from source to the drain therefore it
will affect
the amount of drain current
flowing from drain to the source
so to calculate the
effective electric field at threshold
point
you can try example 11.2
so to calculate the
effective electric field at threshold
point
you can try example 11.2
okay this figure shows the idvd
characteristic
uh comparing between when we consider
constant mobility
and also value velocity saturation
so this comparison of id is
uh for constant mobility uh
shows is as in the dotted black line
here okay for velocity saturation
is the blue line okay as we can see
if we didn't consider the constant
mobility
then the idbd characteristic is
normal where it's saturated
saturate and higher
drain voltage okay for even for
high gate voltage okay but
if we consider the constant mobility as
we can see
for smaller vgs
okay for smaller one volt vgs there is
a very slightly different between the
blue line and the
black line however when we increase
further
the gate voltage for example this one
two volt okay there is a deviation okay
between when we consider velocity
saturation
and constant mobility so this is
actually due to the
electric field that or the surface
scattering that
we explained in the previous previous
slide
so the difference is much greater when
we increase
the gate voltage so we can see for the
three volt gate
voltage so this is the line the blue
line
and this is when we the black line when
we consider
the constant mobility so for this case
for smaller um
drain current saturation uh the
approximate uh so actually for smaller
drain current saturation
it does not depends on the gate voltage
but
for higher drain current saturation it
depends on the
gate voltage when we consider constant
mobility
okay the increasing of velocity
saturation
can actually increase the drain current
thus we will get a faster switching time
where the device or the mosfet can turn
on and off
in a short time okay so the left figures
shows the
simple mos structure so this is the
china length from source to the dream
okay represent as the capital l
so there is also a parameter of
small l so this is actually the distance
uh between the collision or the
scattering
what we uh what i have explained in the
previous slide
so this collision is actually due to the
uh
electric field of
the gate to source and drain okay
where it will affect that the electron
instead of flowing
a straight line from source to the drain
it has a zigzag behavior if you still
so this is the distance of the electron
to pass through
from source to drain uh where it has to
overcome the scattering
so in most case cases uh the capital
l is uh greater than the
small l okay so this is
when scattering uh occurs so for this
case
uh it is a normal behavior so there is
an electric field
vertical electric field from gate from
the gate
therefore the electron has to pass
through from source to drain
to pass through the electric field from
source to 3 in in a zigzag behavior
but what if the l is smaller the
uh the capital l is smaller than the
small l so this is a very ideal case so
we consider it as a no scattering so no
scattering effect so the electron can
move very smooth
uh from source to drain in a straight
line so this
we call it as a ballistic transport so
ballistic transport it's like
there is no barrier so it can pass
through
in a in in sort of a straight line
so for this case the voltage of valistic
is greater than the
voltage of saturation so this actually
so this behavior so no scattering effect
and ballistic transport can be achieved
by using a novel
morse structure uh we call it as a
carbon
nanotube transistor if you interest to
know further
you can check out what is carbon
nanotube so
the electrons flowing through the
channel has no
scattering effect and we call it as the
electron
has a ballistic transport
this is the summary for ballistics
transport
in long channel affiti we consider a
drift
transport so this drift transport is
influenced by the
scattering effect or collision of the
electron
or zigzag behavior in the channel for
the electron to pass through from source
to the drain
so the mean distance between scattering
effect or scattering event
is called as a mean path through
so if the china line gets smaller
so the mean free path or the scattering
event can be ignored and the carrier is
expected to move in ballistic or without
collision or without scattering so this
carrier velocity is much faster when in
drift
transport
now we move on the mosfet scaling so
what happened
uh if we scale down the channel line of
the mosfet
what happened to the characteristic so
especially the frequency response of
the fat structure can be improved by
reducing the channel length so what are
the parameters that need to be scaled
as the channel line is scaled down is
two parameter
constant field scaling and generalized
scaling
so the constant field scaling
is actually device dimension and the
device voltage
is scaled such that the electric field
is remain constant
doesn't matter it's a vertical electric
field or horizontal electric field
and we consider the electric field is
constant so for the generalized scaling
is actually um
there are other when we for the apply
voltage
our scale with the skin with the same
scaling factor
uh as the divide dimension however in
the actual technology evolution
the voltage does not uh reduce
with the same scaling factor so
this has to look through what are the
effect of the generalized
scaling
for the first effect which is constant
field
scaling so the constant field scaling
is a device parameter where we consider
the physical dimension
the physical dimension means the uh
chandelien the oxide thickness
uh the doping this is all the physical
parameter
and as well as the the width okay
the width
okay the width of the uh device
okay so uh all this parameter is skill
such that the electric field we consider
constant means the electric field here
is
constant
all right so this electric field should
not be increased to ensure
the reliability of the fact is remain
constant
so but there is one parameter
introduced which is k parameter
so this is scaling parameter
so when we consider this scaling
parameter
so all the physical dimension
such as the gate applied voltage
the channel line now become k l
uh the doping concentration now we
divide by the k
parameter and also the w now become
um kw
all right so all the physical parameter
and now
has to times with the k value which is
the
scaling parameter so we notice that the
channel length
is reduced by 0.7 l
so basically typical value for k
scanning parameter is 0.7
therefore uh this parameter uh
this physical parameter now has to
multiply
by 0.7 but for the doping has to divide
by
0.7 so this scaling parameter will
affect the drain current
which will be explained in the next
slide
so when we consider k
scaling parameter or the constant field
scaling parameter
in the iv characteristic so the iv
the drain current equation will also
depends on the k parameter
so this portion uh is the
id for the original case okay without
constant field scaling parameter
so this is a quotient is the id scale
where we consider k parameter
okay in the equation where the w times
with k
the channel line times weight k the
oxide thickness times with k
and also the gate voltage times with k
so for this case uh the new
id skill is depends on the k so if we
let's say if we take out all the k value
so
the the equation for k will become
this portion is k times
so this quotient is
k square okay divided by
k times k so
actually if we simplify the equation
we'll get k
so basically uh if we can
uh simplify the equation so id scale
is now uh is equal to the k
times id original before we consider the
k
parameter scaling
okay for the threshold voltage uh first
approximation
this equation is the in the previous
slide
so id scale is depends on the k
scaling parameter all the
physical parameter for w depends on the
k
for l depends on the k for t ox depends
on the k
as well as for the vgs it depends on the
skill
factor however for the threshold voltage
it does not depends on the scale skill
factor
why didn't threshold voltage skill is
because of so from this equation so this
is
the portion for the doping concentration
okay
right so this portion is actually
proportional to the
square root k so basically uh for this
case
uh key does not give any uh
much change to the threshold voltage
that's why for this case k does not
uh being being scaled okay
if you want to know more on the summary
of the constant field device scaling you
can
look at this table 11.1
so each scale parameter is explained
by times k or divide by k or
is actually equal to 1 so you can look
through this scaling factor
in this table 11.1
generalized scaling there are
shortcomings in constant
field scaling approach
so basically uh it is
uh we consider that the electric field
is constant and the other parameter is
not scale
is threshold voltage and subtraction
current
and electric field cannot be maintained
due to the increase in electric field
decrease
and the device reliability and increase
in power density
in generalized scaling not all
parameters are skilled
using one scaling factor so the only
parameters such as
apply voltage and threshold voltage
scale
more gradually compared to the physical
dimension which is l
w and oxide thickness
okay we will move uh further to the
threshold voltage
modification so this is one of the
effect
uh non ideal effect uh
this effect is divided into two the
short channel effect
and narrow channel effect so what are
these two
is for it consider
what happened when the gate length
is decreased so there will be a short
channel effect
and for narrow channel effect is what
happened when the w
decreased so what happened to the
mosfet characteristics so we will look
through after this
now what is a short channel effect
so let us look uh what is short channel
effect from these
uh three figures the first figure shows
at flat band okay where there is no
gate applied voltage and there is no
space charge region
or depletion region created underneath
the
gate okay and
during inversion so this figure
is at inversion okay so this figure
shows at long channel
sorry
at long channel and the bottom figures
shows at short channel
so at inversion when the gate voltage is
applied
okay so there will be a space charge
region
created as a shadow area here
so this is a space charge region created
underneath the gate
all right so this is gate voltage
okay so for this case uh this is long
channel
we we put it as l okay what happened
uh if we scale down the channel length
so now the gate will become smaller so
we have mu
l here we put it as l prime
so this is due to the short channel
so in this case uh the
space charge region also will become
compact
so as we can see the uh now
the region are compact and um
the area is larger so therefore the
charge
uh the charge
and the uh shade in the space charge
region here also
will be uh increase the number of charge
so due to this area
change in a short channel
thus it will also effect the number of
charges
in the space charge region therefore it
will affect the
threshold voltage so how would this
happen
it will be explained in the next slide
so now let's take a look on the
threshold voltage equation
so this is the equation for the
threshold voltage
uh the normal case the long channel
okay as we can see it depends on the
charge
on the charge at uh the space charge
region
uh q prime sd and the other parameter
so this figure shows the mosfet
structure for short channel
okay and then for this case
um for short channel as i said
uh earlier so the space charge
region under the gate will become more
compact
and will be extended further if we
consider all the space charge region
under the source under the git and under
the drain
so this is source gate and the drain
so it will be uh this term so
xs will be extended
so this is a space charge region at the
drain
okay and this is the space charge region
under the gate
so we have that parameter
all right so if we consider the space
charge region depth
for all uh xs is
equal to the xd xd is equal to x dt
and finally is approximately equal to
the
x dt therefore the charge
per unit area under the gate will become
to this equation
so now the space charge region under the
gate will
uh if we can see this is
this this portion so this is a
trapezoidal uh
region so if we want to know the
area we need to multiply we need to
sum this uh length and also this length
and finally it is actually equal to this
value
l plus l prime over two
so therefore the chi the charge
underneath
the gate will be multiplied by this
uh area portion the trapezoidal area
so from the geometry uh actually uh
approximately to equal to this equation
and therefore
the new uh charge underneath the gate
will be equal to this equation
so when the charge under
the gate is changed therefore it will
affect the threshold voltage so these
terms
now will the qb will be affected
the the the gate voltage and sorry the
threshold voltage which we
explained in the next slide
if we uh write down the equation
therefore the change in threshold
voltage
delta vt is equal to the threshold
of short channel minus the threshold
voltage
of a long channel which given by
this portion of equation and finally
the delta t will be equal to
this long equation
so when if we can uh
summarize it um actually as the
channel link is decreased okay so the
threshold voltage
will also be decreased so this is for
the case of
sorry this is for the case of n channel
with the end so when the channel line
decrease the threshold voltage will be
shifted
in negative direction which is towards
the
depletion mode
if you want to try uh how to calculate
the threshold voltage shift
and also the space charge region
underneath the source drain and the gate
you can try example 11.3
if you want to try uh how to calculate
the threshold voltage shift
and also the space charge region
underneath the source drain and the gate
you can try example 11.3
now change in threshold voltage so the
left figures
shows the threshold voltage minus uh
flat van voltage versus uh gate length
okay as you can see uh the
the trend are almost the same same for
all
uh concentration condition
this is 10 to the power 11 10 of 16
and so on so basically the
trend are almost the same however if we
take a look at for the case of short
channel
if we take at two micrometer
okay as we can see if we go
less than two micrometer so the channel
line less than two micrometer
as you can see the trend start to
decrease the terrestrial voltage uh
starts
uh start to decrease so this happens uh
as
due to the uh channel
lag modulation it's explained in the
previous slide
so uh the short channel becomes
significant
when the gate length is less than 2
micrometer
and short channel effect is less
significant
for low doping substrate
if we can see at n a equal to 10 power
of 15
this is almost straight line and there
is no
change in for the case of less than
2 micrometer so if we can
look for the the same trend the
threshold voltage versus china line
so again for the same if we have less
than two micrometer the
the threshold voltage is actually
decreased and this will also become more
severe
if we apply larger drain to source
voltage
as we can see for the case of this line
okay
the drain voltage is uh at linear region
where the applied voltage is 0.125
so there is a change in the threshold
voltage
but not very severe but when we
apply uh drain voltage uh
four volt which means this is during
uh saturation region okay during
saturation region
thus the threshold voltage will become
decreased more
severe for this case so charge voltage
does not only
depends on the gate length it also
depends
on the how much bias that we apply in
the drain
is either in linear region or saturation
region
if we look at the narrow channel effect
so
what is narrow channel effect so what
happens when we decrease
the width instead of the length
this figures uh diagram shows the cross
section
along the channel width for n channel
mosfet
and this is the w okay
so if we draw a cross section uh
for the width so at the back here so
this
is the l all right
so underneath the area i mean the area
underneath the gate
so this area is given by the shaded area
here
so this is the area where the charge uh
trap or stock underneath the gate
which is given by qb it uh
equals to the qb naught okay before we
narrow down the channel line uh plus the
delta qb
so qb naught is given by
this equation e n a w
l x d t but now
what happened when we
decrease the gate gate width okay
so there will be so this area this area
is quite straightforward which is
uh the
square area but now i'm talking about
this
area which is the rate area that i'm
shaded
so this area is given by the delta qb
where it now depends on the fitting
parameter
this one okay so this is the fitting
so if we consider this fitting parameter
now
the qb will become uh
will equal to this equation
so therefore there will be change in the
threshold voltage
which is depends on the fitting
parameter
times this fitting parameter and delta
vt now will become
with this equation so if we can
summarize this
uh we can say that
as uh w is
decreased okay then the
v threshold for the case of the
n mosfet will be increased
so additional charge space charge is
need to be considered for
narrow channeling
this is the effect of gate width on the
threshold voltage
as we can see this figure shows the
threshold voltage versus the gate width
okay as the gate width if let's say
we take
8 it
okay for
for the gate width less than the 8
micrometer
the threshold voltage starts to
increase so instead of the trend
like this so
after it reaches a narrower gate width
so the thruster voltage will start to
increase
so threshold voltage begins to become
apparent or significant for larger
uh channel width compared to the induced
space charge width so this trend is
actually the same
for uh with the we
change in the concentration or the
doping concentration
therefore this is uh the summarization
of threshold voltage modification
threshold voltage change
due to the channel dimension so the
figure is
is the threshold voltage due to the
channel length
and figure b shows the threshold voltage
due to the channel width so at certain
point
uh for uh short
channel length okay the threshold
voltage uh
the difference of thruster voltage will
decrease for this case
when the l is decreased the
threshold voltage will be also decreased
for the case of short channel line for
the case of
narrow channeling okay
uh when we take any of the gate width
less than uh any certain point
so if we can summarize this the w
uh increase but the threshold voltage
will
decrease for the china width case
so that's it for the conclusion for the
threshold voltage change
due to the channel dimension for both
channel length
and channel with
so this is the summary of the lecture
so uh i have explained the sub-threshold
conduction
means the id is not equal to zero
okay so for this case is this uh for the
experimental uh case uh the real case
even when the vg s is less than the
threshold voltage
in this case uh the transistor is biased
in weak
inversion mode okay where the id is
dominated by the diffusion
rather than the drift mechanism so the l
effective or the channel line effective
is reduced
with the vds apply the larger you apply
vds voltage at drain okay you would
create an extended region
under the drain and therefore the
effective
gate length will be reduced in this case
mosfet is biased
in the saturation region due to the
depletion region
and the drain extend into the channel
this effect is known as a channel
length modulation
and the mobility of carrier in the
inversion layer is not constant
okay this is because that as vgs is
increased
the electric field or the vertical
electric field or
transverse electric field under the gate
okay at the oxide interface will
increase and this will cause a surface
scattering effect
okay due to this scattering effect it
will lead to
the mobility reduction and also it will
deviate the ideal iv characteristic
okay and as the uh l
is reduced the lateral electric field is
increased so that the caries flowing
through the channel
may reach their saturation velocity in
this case
the drain current become a linear
function
and then finally if i could summarize
that the tendency of mosfet
design becomes smaller so the gate
length or the l
become smaller so the principle of
constant
field scaling has been discussed okay so
the modification in threshold voltage as
device dimensions shrinking
not only the l the w as well the the
gate width
has been discussed so because of the
charge sharing effect
in the substrate the threshold voltage
decreased as
the gate length decreased and also the
threshold voltage increase
as the width at the gate width decrease